HERE ARE THE INFORMATION I KNEW ABOUT SITERO - ABOUT THE ACHIEVEMENT THERE ARE SIX(6) THAT I SAW - MAYBE I'LL DO IT LATER...

INFORMATION:

The DepEd Vision
We dream of Filipinos
who passionately love their country
and whose values and competencies
enable them to realize their full potential
and contribute meaningfully to building the nation.

As a learner-centered public institution,
the Department of Education
continuously improves itself
to better serve its stakeholders.


The DepEd Mission
To protect and promote the right of every Filipino to quality, equitable, culture-based, and complete basic education where:

Students learn in a child-friendly, gender-sensitive, safe, and motivating environment.
Teachers facilitate learning and constantly nurture every learner.
Administrators and staff, as stewards of the institution, ensure an enabling and supportive environment for effective learning to happen.
Family, community, and other stakeholders are actively engaged and share responsibility for developing life-long learners.

Department of Education
​ Mission, Vision, and Core Values 
          DepEd vision, mission and core values statements serve as the pillars of Sitero Francisco Memorial National High School. It helps to transfer the DepEd advocacies to the personnel and stakeholders. Vision defined the direction and inspiration for the department, likewise, Mission clarifies the purpose and the SMART objectives of the Department of Education. Core values support the vision, shape the culture and reflects values of the school and the department as a whole. ​
Picture
** The vision implies that our students have to develop the value of patriotism and in the future they are expected to help in the continuous progress of the community where they belong. It is said that the youth is the hope of the land, likewise, the students are instruments in building a country which is globally competitive and will never be left behind. In short, the Department of Education will produce well-conducted citizens of our country.​
Picture
** The DepEd mission is focused on how the students acquire knowledge. Corporal punishment is out of the system. This means that they have to learn with so much love and care from all of the people around them but discipline is still there and the environment where they reside should be conducive to learning. Education is not the sole responsibility of DepEd but a joint effort of all stakeholders (parents, teachers, administrators, local government officials, NGO’s and the entire community).


SITERO FRANCISCO MEMORIAL NATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL was guided by the following core values:
​
 MAKA-DIYOS                                MAKA-KALIKASAN
  MAKATAO                                    MAKA-BANSA


The School principals
Picture
VICTORIA C. NICODEMUS
SYs 2002 - 2006
Picture
Dr. Cesar c. villareal
SYs 2006 - 2011
Picture
​Dr. Brian E. Ilan
SY 2011
Picture
Marciana A. Daet
SYs 2011 - 2019
Picture
Ma. Christina c. Salonga
2019 - present



Brief History
                The SITERO FRANCISCO MEMORIAL NATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL was established by virtue of the Republic Act 8842 on    August 22, 2000 with Mrs. Victoria C. Nicodemus, as its Officer- In-Charge and later on its first school principal. Its first building which now houses the  Faculty Room, Library and Department Heads/Subject Area Coordinators Office, Special Education Center, Technology and Livelihood Laboratory and four classrooms was finally completed in 2002.The second building now named Solar Building was completed in 2004.The school started with 451 first year students and seven pioneer teachers. This school sent forth its first graduates in April 12, 2005. 
                 In June 2006, Mr. Cesar C. Villareal took over the reign of the school as its second principal and on August 4, 2011, Dr. Brian E. Ilan, an Education Supervisor, was assigned to lead the school as its 3rd principal.
                 In December 27, 2011, Miss Marciana A. Daet, then principal of Canumay East National High School, was    assigned to head the school. Miss Daet is now the fourth and current principal of the school. Under her leadership, the school is doing its best to prove equal to the task of delivering the best possible quality basic education to its students. It is also addressing the need to be responsive to the changing times and demands of the Philippine society in small but sure steps.
                On the following years new buildings were constructed initiated by the Local Government, a 3-storey 12 classroom building was inaugurated August 15, 2014. More buildings were constructed and inaugurated on the following years initiated by DepEd and DPWH - May 20, 2017, 4-storey, 8 classroom school building; January 26, 2018, 4-storey, 16 classroom Senior High school building; and on January 8, 2019 another 4-storey, 8 classroom Senior High School building  was handed to our growing community.
                In July 11, 2019, Mrs. Ma. Christina C. Salonga, the former principal of Bignay National High School was assigned as the 5th School head of SFMNHS. At present, SFMNHS has 91 teaching staff, 11 administrative and 19 support staff doing the teaching and administrative works respectively and catering the needs of 2847 Junior High School, 413 Senior High School and 75 students. 
               Sitero Francisco Memorial National High School envisions more for its clientele and looks forward to producing competent graduates who will blaze the trail and will set the paragon of a true-blue SFMNHS-educated citizen.

SFMNHS Highlights:
ELECTRONIC VOTING (E-VOTING) 
Sitero becomes first to experience e-voting Students of Sitero Francisco Memorial National High School became the first to experience computerized voting in Metro Manila and in the country. Back in 2009, Vincent San Joaquin, an alumnus of Sitero, developed a software that was used by the school to conduct their electronic voting. San Joaquin began working on the software in 2007. He also added auto-correction feature in case the voter would make mistakes. He said there would be no chances of any cheating or vote manipulation. "Madali pong mandaya kung magaling po," San Joaquin said in a media in 2009. Currently, Sitero has been using Google Forms, a web-based app used to create forms for data collection purposes, to conduct e-voting. Selected students are tasked to observe and monitor the elections. Due to advanced technology, more students can vote at once unlike before, where only 4 to 5 students can vote at the same time.
 
SOLAR SCHOOL
Sitero Francisco Memorial National High School was known as a pillar in terms of 1st classrooms/building powered by solar panels. As it was donated by organizations from foreign country. Sitero maximized the use of the Solar panel and at the same time taught the students to value the conservation of non-renewable and renewable resources of energy

CULTURE and ARTS CLUB (CAC)
Sitero Francisco Memorial National High School Angklung Ensemble is consist of talented young students from SFMNHS committed to propagate culture and arts. It is supervised by Mr. Jhay Ar Santos Jr., Head Teacher of MAPEH Department. One of the group's objectives is to exhibit their unique talents by playing Angklung, which isn't basic to play. They perform it every time there'll be events not only in Sitero but in different places around the city as well. What makes playing angklung unique is because of its different harmony compared to other instruments. With the use of this instrument, it's possible to show your own shine by playing it wholeheartedly.

CAMPUS JOURNALISM
Sitero Francisco Memorial National High School is known for its very active participation when it comes to campus journalism. It aims to establish the truth and mold students with potential future through writing and speaking. Good communication skills enable every student to be more vocal and expressive with their thoughts and insights. In line with this, our school has two official publications: Altiora Peto for English and Ang Antipara for Filipino. These two allow students to showcase their skills, through joining different journalism-related competitions such as Division, Regional and National Schools Press Conferences. SFMNHS has already created a mark in the journalism field, by bagging several awards for many years. It is maintaining its consistency when it comes to journalism and is still having the same aim, "Aim for the highest."

SITERO HUSKIES
Siberian Huskies are well-known sledge dogs. They have been pulling sleds and carrying people and supplies ever since their existence. They have strong muscular bodies, legs, and broad shoulders, which give them a lot of power to go over huge distances even in the toughest terrain, during the harshest of weathers. The type of physical traits and mental disposition that every Siterian athletes aspires to possess.
Contrary to popular belief, huskies are not wolves. They belong to the Spitz Genetic Family. Which at least for the last 5000 years, has not been influenced by wolves. Huskies originate from Siberia and they may look similar to wolves but their behaviors are very different. Huskies are typically fun-loving, energetic, even temperament, and indifferent to strangers making them an ideal family dogs. The epitome of every Siterian Athlete, fierce and friendly, competitive and cooperative.
Huskies have a zest for life that is unmatched by other breeds, this encapsulate the Siterian adherence to Team-work, Camaraderie, and Sportsmanship tied with unflinching thirst for Adventure and Fun.

​TEATRO SITERO
SFMNHS Theatrical Arts Guild of Enhancement (STAGE club) is back! The theatre of Sitero Francisco Memorial National High School has finally opened again this year which has a goal to enhance the skills of Siterians in terms of their own talents. It started when the promotion of theatre was held on June 28, 2019 at stage during Club Day. On September 10 2019, the audition for the theatre artists was held inside the Audio-Visual Room managed by Mrs. Raycille Libres and Mr. Jasper Angeles. The said theatre was also made up of the following officers: Micole Delos Santos (President), Richelle Ann Malto (Vice President), Shameha Morente (Public Information Officer) and Lea Amor Fedelin (Assistant Secretary) Aside from the well done audition, there'll be more activities lined up for the Siterians planned by the said team.

INCLUSIVE EDUCATION
SFMNHS Special Inclusive-Education Program Team is consist of for(4) vibrant individual with one mission - to provide quality education that will enable all learners to realize their full potential and meaningfully take part in nation-building. The SFMNHS Special Inclusive-Education Program does its best to maintain and further enhance its program amidst challenges. It continues to focus on its mission to cater to the special needs of high school students with exceptionalities. It has the vision to create conducive place for learning and exploring possibilities for special students with intellectual disability, autism, behavioral problems, orthopedic handicaps, speech defects and learning disabilities to become, to the best of their potentials, independent, self- reliant, productive, and socially accepted members of society.

​ICT ORIENTED SCHOOL​ 
With the type of learners we have nowadays, the integration of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) is much needed. SFMNHS believes that the use of ICT plays a vital role in the teaching and learning process for it allows students to have a more advanced learning through embracing a technology enhanced environment. Software in schools help elevate the community through the application of technology-related activities both in the field of teaching and learning. In fact, SFMNHS was the first school in the entire country to conduct an Electronic-Voting. The school also demonstrates support to the teachers by providing materials like laptop, netbooks, LCD projectors, printers, scientific calculator and televisions. These will allow them to impart knowledge in a more convenient way. Another factor which contributes to the integration of technology is the school facilities. SFMNHS already has three Computer laboratories with almost 200 computer sets, Science Laboratory, Mathematics Laboratory and Publication Office. Building a Speech Laboratory is also one of the plans of the school. These facilities provide a conducive learning environment where they can perform various activities or experiments. It is indeed evident that ICT is taking over all fields particularly education. Therefore, SFMNHS will continue to provide and improve its integration across the institution.



Location:
14.6904181 Latitude, ​121.00891550000006 Longhitude
SITERO NATIONAL HIGHSCHOOL, M2R5+6H3, Valenzuela City, Metro Manila

School Geographic location ​
Picture

​Sitero Francisco Memorial National High School (SFMNHS) is one of the public national high schools under the supervision of the Division and City Schools – Valenzuela. It was located inside the Sta. Monica Subdivision, Ugong Valenzuela City.

The 9, 136 square meter floor plan was strategically designed with  6 buildings, (building A - E), a covered court and a boccie court.
Building A: The Administrative Building
(12 rooms)
Building B: The LSB building (12 rooms)
Building C: The Newest SHS building  (8 rooms)
Building D: The Oldest SHS building (8 rooms)
Building E: The Present SHS building (16 rooms)
Building F: The Solar Building (9 rooms)
​​

Himig ng SFMNHS

​​Virgilio T. Santos Jr.

​Titik at Musika

HIMIG NG SFMNHS
Virgilio T. Santos Jr.
Titik at Musika

Dangal ka ng puso
Tanglaw sa aming buhay
Hinubog sa ‘yong adhikain
Talinong aming angkin
 
Luwalhati sa ‘yong ngalan
Mahal naming paaralan
Pasasalamat at lubusan
Saksi ang buong tanan
 
O aming Alma Mater
Ningas mo’y itataas
Hindi ka mawawaglit
Kailanman sa aming puso
 



school organization
Picture
MA. CHRISTINA C. SALONGA
Principal III
Picture
GIL C. BUENAVISTA
Assistant Principal II
Junior High School
Picture
English Department
headed by
Francia F. San Miguel
​
Nova U. Gonzales
Mary Joyce M. Decena
Marissa M. Alcanar
Karren Carla L. Manglapus
Marilou H. Ocampo
Charmaine M. Obispo
Aileen L. Crisostomo
Jezelle P. Dalwanpu
Jael Diane R. Gicoso
Regine M. Macasarte
Sandra L. Pacia
Francisc Roel T. Rivera

​
Picture




​Science Department
headed by
​
​Jesusa D. Del Rosario
​
Richel F. Delos Santos
Ma. Eloisa M. Buenavista
Norilyn L. Samonte
Florgela M. Masanque
Baldwin C. Reyes
Randy A. Juliano
Analin L. Laurito
Paula Angela S. Madiclom
Cyrine Joy T. Eugenio
Aries N. Millares
Rose Ann S. Samonte
Florida B. Cabrera


Picture
Filipino Department
headed by
​Mariel M. Zipagan

Eduardo S. Cruz
Mylyne P. Abeleda
Priscilla B. Raymundo
Rachel R. Abejuela
Geraldine R. Dalisay
Rose Lyne I. Jacinto
Germie D.P Castillo
Roberto E. Celeste Jr.
Edison D. Taguilaso
Hazel Ann J. Lopez
Abegail D. Grencio
​
​
​
Picture
​Technology and Livelihood Education Department
Bernardo B. Junio
​
Irene D. Mendiola
Maila B. Solian
Rosali L. De Jesus
Jhoana Rhea J. Oseña
Rowena A. Bautista
Rodel A. Barcelo
Janine T. Gutierrez
Phillip A. Roxas
Norman R. Guererro
Reizel Martin G. Candido
Eddie R. Baac Jr.
Donalyn V. Dantes
Picture
Mathematics Department
headed by
​Leticia L. Layug

Vivian V. Fernandez​
Kris Conrad T. Santiago
Eugenia L. Duldulao
Belinda L. Olbes
Midjet V. Barbosa
Oliver G. Mariano
​Grace D. Manaoat
Mary Rose B. Domingo
Charlene d.G Abalos
Mary Rose B. Domingo
Leah Mae T. Ortiz
Realie C. Restum
Jhasmine R. Patalud
​
Picture
Music, Arts, Physical Education
and Health
Virgilio T. Santos Jr​

Rolando A. Valdez Jr.
Gemmalyn E. Daria
Resie B. Hadloc
Gelyn C. Galicia
John Paul J. Herrera
Jeline A. Ramos
Rico B. Guzman Jr.
Hernando O. Yabut
Angel D. Aquino
Daryl C. Basug
Maan H. Abejero

Picture
AP Department
headed by
​Rosario G. De Gracia

Jeanne P. Cloa
Rosalyn R. Acuna
Eugenia S. Valdez
Nadine Louise T. Roncales
Patricio L. Castelo III
Ernalyn G. Santos
Josephine E. Caparas
Melody S. Delos Santos
Janice M. Alba
Alexa S. Capili



​
Picture
​Values Education Department
headed by
Leonida C. Bangayan

Lanie G. Narida
​Virginia T. Camarinas
Kate M. Sanchez
Eliada C. Santos
Annie Rose E. Mendoza
Abegail R. Abano

SpEd Department
headed by
Joan B. Matining

Alvin C. Urmaza
Melissa P. Garganta
Mary Grace H. Andres
​
Senior High School department(19 people)
Picture
Language Group
Mathematics and Science Group
Technology, Vocational and Livelihood Group


non teaching personnel(8 people)
name
role
title


↪️ ADDRESS : Sta.Monica Subdivision,Ugong, Valenzuela City, Philippines 📞OFFICIAL CONTACT NUMBER: 0922 625 1196/(02)288-1695 📨GMAIL: sfmnhs@gmail.com 📨YAHOO: siterohigh@yahoo.com


MESSAGE OF THE PRINCIPAL:
Picture
         I am very proud to be the principal of this wonderful school. It is a privilege for me to work with the teachers, students, staff and parents in making this school the best that it can be. My goal is to lead our school community towards achieving our common goals- to create a safe, conducive and challenging environment that is built on positive relationships; to develop the full potential of our learners; and to make them globally competitive.
       Our school must be known for its image as a friendly and lively community whose primary concern is the welfare of all its students. We have a high-regard for the authentic learning opportunities that will inspire the learners to develop creativity, confidence and resilience to become independent and efficient life-long learners.
      We would like to offer ample opportunities for our learners to achieve excellence in academics and in all aspects of their lives. There is so much value given to collaborative learning and positive relationships. We support the well-being of our learners and we hope to provide an environment that will allow many students to flourish as they work towards achieving their individual best performance. We may set high standards for our learners, but we promise to work hard to provide quality education and sustain excellence through strengthening our partnership with our stakeholders.
          I want the Siterians to leave the school with the values of respect, cooperation, persistence and striving for excellence underpinning all that they do. I look forward to making our students develop responsibility in their own behavior and the choices that they make will help them become well-rounded individuals. I want them to have a strong self-esteem, personal expectations, healthy and respectful tolerance for others.

MA. CHRISTINA A. SALONGA
Principal IV



SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAM:
ACADEMIC TRACKS:
- ABM
- GAS
TVL TRACKS:
- ICT - COMPUTER SYSTEM SERVICING
- INDUSTRIAL ARTS - ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS AND MAINTENANCE


SENIOR HIGH FACULTY:
Technology and Vocational Livelihood Group
Picture
Meliza M. Roque
SHS Coordinator
M​aster Teacher I
Picture
Alfredo R. Alcantara Jr.
Subject Group Head
​M​aster Teacher II
Picture
Rokie Happy S. Rafols
M​aster Teacher I
Picture
Lady Michelle M. del Prado
Teacher  III
Picture
Maria Consuelo C. Sorra
Master Teacher I
Picture
Maricel B. Ngo
Teacher II
Science And Mathematics Group
Picture
Randy H. Malto
​Subject Group Head
​Master Teacher I
Picture
Amylene Y. Catayas
Teacher III
Picture
Mary Rose Anglie
​S. Gatus
Teacher III
Picture
Ruby A. Partible
Teacher III
Picture
Roselle G. Hutamariz
Teacher III
Picture
Joenie L. Fregillana
Teacher III
Language Group
Picture
Rheydith G. Conte
​Master Teacher I
Picture
Jasper B. Angeles
​Master Teacher I
Picture
Raycille P. Libres
​Teacher III
Picture
Ma. Regina A. del Mundo
​​Master Teacher I
Picture
Edelyn L. dela Cruz
Teacher III
Designer
Picture
Henee B. Arcinue
Teacher III